# Contemporary Issues In Data- COVID-19 Reporting

Ever since roughly March, just around when Spring Break started at NYU, the United States has somewhat ground to a stop, with quarantining for COVID-19 causing all but the most essential businesses to be closed. This has led to major financial repercussions along with the normal effects of an pandemic- that is, infection and death. As such, major news outlets have taken to reporting on the severity of the issue. As such, here I present two outlooks on the severity of the disease, as outlets interpret the data in different ways.

## Article 1

In CNN's ['This is our most dangerous time.' Covid-19 deaths are at unprecedented levels as US cases top 22 million](https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/09/health/us-coronavirus-saturday/index.html), the four writers discuss the rising cases and how the virus may continue to spread in the future. As the article notes in its opening section, by January 9th, the total number of Americans infected surpassed 22 million, and 372,000 deaths associated with said infections. The article, written on January 10, 2021, notes that in the nine preceding days of 2021, there were more than 2 million new Covid-19 cases and more than 26,000 deaths, a staggering number considering that it averages to about 222,000 cases and 2,900 deaths a day over that nine-day span.

Consequently, the article makes it clear that the pandemic is a serious thing, between California having so many deaths that the morgues are full, and funeral homes in general having so many deaths that the funeral homes have to share hearses. However, with the rollout of the vaccine, there has been hope that the pandemic will be overcome. Hopefully, that time will come soon, as Los Angeles has been averaging a Covid-19 death roughly every eight minutes, according to the mayor, Eric Garcetti. Although CNN does not make much of a comment about the magnitude of the number, it is clear that given such high numbers, the pandemic should be taken seriously.

Overall, I think this article is a good representation of the problems we are facing with Covid-19 at the moment, with many new cases and deaths are are starting to get overwhelming. Especially given how the article was written close to the end of the holiday season and after the insurrection, it is a little frightening that there may be an even more drastic uptick in Covid-19 cases. I do hope that the vaccine rollout goes out well, but my mother has received the vaccine, being high priority due to her job, so I do know that the vaccine is being rolled out. Hopefully, we will be able to overcome this and be back to some semblance of normalcy by the 2021-2022 school year.

## Article 2

However, in the NY Post's article [Here’s how the media is misreporting COVID-19’s death toll in America](https://nypost.com/2020/10/17/how-the-media-is-misreporting-covid-19s-death-toll-in-america/), the NY Post argues that other media sources, such as CNN, are misrepresenting the actual death toll and the virus is not as severe as the media makes it out to be. In the article, written on October 17, 2020, the authors talk about how CNN announced that 200,000 people had died from Covid-19 in the United States on September 22. However, the authors point out that as around 177,000 Americans died during the 2017-2018 flu season, the deaths from Covid-19 are only a 2017-2018 flu season, just boosted by 13%. Furthermore, about the number of cases, due to the high false positive rate of the Covid-19 test and the high number of tests being used, there will be many false positives, which would inflate the count. As a result, the article concludes that the pandemic is not as big of a deal as the media makes it out to be.

However, I feel that the article makes some false comparisons to previous situations to attempt to downplay the severity of the pandemic. With the comparison to the 2017-2018 flu season and how it is a mere 13% increase- first, that 13% increase is a big deal! 23,000 deaths are definitely not be be scoffed at, as that is a major loss of life. Furthermore, the comparison of the 200,000 deaths is somewhat faulty, as that number represents the deaths up to September, while the 177,000 deaths in 2017-2018 covers the whole year. If we were to disregard the last three months of a year and use the death count up to then to compare to an entire year, of course the numbers would look closer than they should be. If we were to multiply 177,000 by 3/4 to account for how only results up to September were counted, then we would have an equivalent 132,750 deaths in the 2017-2018 flu season, making it almost a 50% increase instead! The authors also argue that the flu season didn't result in any of the precautions being taken at the moment for quarantine, despite being similar in death count, but don't acknowledge the possibility that the methods decreased the number of deaths, and had we used these precautions in the 2017-2018 flu season, the number of deaths might have increased as well. However, it is true that there are a lot of false positives, so I will give the article that. However, I think its main premise is somewhat faulty, and is an attempt to sell their book to get more of this idea.